#summary Definition of the concepts used by the game.

=== Winning Conditions ===
Federate more than 50% of the population. This means either reducing the enemy's population and/or federating more clans.

=== Federation ===
A coalition of clans with a defensive pact. Allied clans also share their visibility.

=== Clan ===
Each player (real or virtual) controls a clan and manages its gold. Clans are composed of at least one group and have attributes that are common to all its groups.

=== Clans Relations ===
Clans have a stance towards each other. Two clans can be part of the same federation if they are in neutral or allied relation. Should two clans in the same federation stop satisfying this condition then one of the two clans will be excluded from the federation based on a vote where every clan has one voice.

=== Clans Stances ===
The stance that a clan adopt towards another initially depends on the difference in the clans' moral compasses and can gradually vary from allied to enemy. The stance changes according to events that occur in the game and that have an impact on how the clan perceives the other clan.

== Stance Variations ==
The events that have an impact on the stance clan A has towards clan B can be of the following nature:
  * Clan B attacks clan A (-)
  * Clan B attacks an ally of clan A (-)
  * An ally of clan B attacks clan A (-)
  * Clan B make an offering to clan A (+)
  * Clan B attacks an enemy of clan A (+)
  * An ally of clan B attacks an enemy of clan A (+)
  * An ally of clan B attacks an ally of an enemy of clan A (+)

=== Moral Compass ===
Basically the personality of the clan, it gives a bias on the stance between clans.

=== Shared Vision ===
Shared vision within a federation allows see what other clans see.

=== Group ===
A group represents a fragment (or possibly all) of the clan. A group can move on the terrain, attack enemy groups, and defend from enemy groups, all using its available stamina. The efficiency of attacking and defending is dependent on the clan's attack and defense attributes. Groups can also mine gold when placed on golden terrain cells.

=== Group Stamina ===
The amount of movement and fighting that a group can accomplish until the end of the turn.
The stamina of the group is replenished at the beginning of each turn.

=== Clan Attributes ===
The clan attributes determine the clan abilities. They can be improved by investing gold.

=== Stamina Attribute ===
=== Attack Attribute ===
=== Defense Attribute ===
=== Culture Attribute ===

=== Turn ===
=== Population Growth ===
=== Combat System ===

=== Cell ===
A square unit of terrain delimited by the gray grid. Golden cells can be mined for gold. A cell can only contain one group at a time, should two groups of the same clan be on the same cell they will automatically be merge into a single group.